Closes #142 blog post experience new admiral developer (#173)
pharmaverse/blog: posts/2024-05-21_our_experience_a.../our_experience_as_new_admiral_developers.qmd

---
title: "Our experience as new admiral developers, coming from a CRO"
author:
  - name: Fanny Gautier
  - name: Lina Patil
description: "Having joined the {admiral} family quite recently, we are very excited to share with you our first steps and thoughts in this new adventure"
date: "2024-05-21"
# please do not use any non-default categories.
# You can find the default categories in the repository README.md
categories: [Community, Conferences]
# feel free to change the image
image: "new_dev1.png"

---

<!--------------- typical setup ----------------->

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
long_slug <- "2024-05-21_our_experience_a..."
# renv::use(lockfile = "renv.lock")
```

<!--------------- post begins here ----------------->
![](new_dev2.png){fig-align="center" width="500"}

> # What experience you had when you started 

Author: To update with : What experience we had when **we** started

As a starting point, we have gone through the [{admiral} documentation](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiraldev/articles/programming_strategy.html), and [how to create a package](https://r-pkgs.org/) websites to get familiar with the work and processes. There is no need to memorize everything, it’s only to get an overview and know that the documentation is available and can be reviewed at any time. Then, we were encouraged to take on and resolve our first dummy issue which was to create an initial and easy function. This was a concrete example to proceed with the full process of creation, documentation and building site. What was amazing is that we have received so much support from the {admiral} Community on how to get started with this dummy issue.  

Moreover, weekly meetings have been set up for the first few weeks to support our integration in the team and to address any queries or issues we may have. This helped us a lot to familiarize ourselves with the processes and requirements of this open-source project. 

> In addition to these meetings, bi-weekly meetings were scheduled with the core development team to discuss and dispatch the tasks within the team, as well as issues newcomers are facing during their on-boarding. Before a new version is released, this bi-weekly meeting becomes a weekly meeting. 

Author: It made us confident to be able to regularly discuss and not being alone in the {admiral} jungle 🐅

The beginning of Github can be scary and may seem complicated due to the potential for mistakes which might impact the entire project. While going through the processes and learning how it exactly works, it’s most of the time a simple process, and while working on the right parallel branch, nothing serious can happen. This is the most important point of working with Github: work on the right parallel branch, never/rarely on the main branch directly! 

This is also where lots of discussions take place. Indeed, this is the place where the issues/tasks are officially described and stored.  

# How you upskilled 

During this open-source experience, we have had the opportunity to dive into a couple of existing issues that have expanded our technical knowledge (various packages: devtools, pkgdown, etc. themselves used for the creation of packages) and sharpened our problem-solving abilities. We received guidance from {admiral} team’s expertise on how to address the issues and improve our implementation. They helped us improve the quality of our code and broaden our understanding of best practices in development with their insights and suggestions.  

> {admiral} is not only developing code. It is also the development of the corresponding documentation and vignettes, as well as maintaining the online user guideline. This is also a forum where colleagues and users share opinions, what they think, how they would resolve an issue or how it is handled in their own company. There’s also a lot of communication around individual topics. 

Author: In that case, what's the difference with learnings and upskilled section ? Everything can be moved to learnings.

> {admiral} is not only developing code. It is also the development of the corresponding documentation and vignettes, as well as maintaining the online user guideline. This is also a forum where colleagues and users share opinions, what they think, how they would resolve an issue or how it is handled in their own company. There’s also a lot of communication around individual topics. 

Reviewer: Sounds good

While completing tasks or resolving bugs which were identified in existing functions, it requires digging into the corresponding functions and learning how exactly they work. By becoming an {admiral} developer, we also become an {admiral} user. 

The tasks are numerous and can correspond to any programming level. 

# What have been the challenges/learnings 

In terms of challenges, setting up the environment was time consuming. Of course, the main environment is company dependent, but following the first setup, there can be challenges to make the {admiral} package work as expected.  

Some packages are required to run single steps. As the renv package has been deprecated for the use of {admiral} earlier this year, a single step is now necessary: *devtools::install_dev_deps(dependencies = TRUE)*. You just need to know it. Once all necessary packages are well installed and launched, it can be very easy to start developing some code or resolve some issues. 

> Another challenge is to understand the automatic CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery) checks and their dependencies with other packages such as {admiraldev}. The CI/CD checks are made not to break down the current code while being updated. Some of these tests are implemented within the {admiraldev} package and used in {admiral} while creating a Pull request. Those updates can thus have some impacts on the {admiral} package itself. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another challenge is to understand the automatic CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery) checks and their dependencies with other packages such as {admiraldev}. The CI/CD checks are used to ensure any code updates we make won't break anything else in the codebase. These checks are implemented within the {admiralci} package and used in {admiral} when you create a Pull request. Those updates can thus have some impacts on the {admiral} package itself. 
```
For consideration, as i think reads a little clearer

Author: Is the first {admiraldev} correct or should it also be replaced by {admiralci} ?
![image](https://github.com/pharmaverse/blog/assets/157114584/cbad74ec-a082-4d20-9dea-33805e3cb9ea)

I wrote that because at some point of time some tests (testthat) were updated in {admiraldev} and crashing the CI/CD checks in {admiral}  🤔

Reviewer 2: thats ok. a big dependency of admiral is admiraldev for the utility functions, but the CI checks themselves are in admiralci

> Another challenge is to understand the automatic CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery) checks and their dependencies with other packages such as {admiraldev}. The CI/CD checks are made not to break down the current code while being updated. Some of these tests are implemented within the {admiraldev} package and used in {admiral} while creating a Pull request. Those updates can thus have some impacts on the {admiral} package itself. 

Author: outdated

# What have you enjoyed 

> Becoming a co-developer and active contributor to {admiral} was an excellent opportunity for us to learn and to grow, and a challenge which we accepted with enthusiasm. By utilizing our backend expertise, we demonstrated our ability to adapt to new programming languages, frameworks, and tools. By working on this open-source issue, we were able to expand our technical horizons and strengthen our problem-solving abilities. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Becoming a co-developer and active contributor to {admiral} was an excellent opportunity for us to learn and to grow, and a challenge which we accepted with enthusiasm. By utilizing our backend expertise, we demonstrated our ability to adapt to new programming languages, frameworks, and tools. By working on this open-source package, we were able to expand our technical horizons and strengthen our problem-solving abilities. 
```
